# XYZ-Company-Sales-Dashboard
An interactive R Shiny sales dashboard for a fictitious supermarket company XYZ, breaking down gross income across numerous levels with insightful data visualizations generated by Echarts4r.

### Data Used
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aungpyaeap/supermarket-sales

### Purpose
This project highlights the strengths of R and R Shiny when it comes to creating insightful data dashboards. The flexibility and interactivity offered by R Shiny truly shines when the amount of space available to display insightful graphs is limited. This dashboard uses the limited screen space available to its full potential by including

- Various user input options (for data filtering)
- Updatable data visualizations
- Interactivity through chart tooltip displays when hovering
- and more. 

### Dashboard eatures

Three primary data visualizations were chosen to display and communicates insights about the data. They are

- Donut (Pie) Charts
- Time Series Graphs
- Sunburst Charts

***Pie charts*** are used to provide answers to questions like:

- *How much of the gross income can be attributed to the sale of goods from certain product lines? How about gross income by gender, payment method, and customer membership status?*

These can be filtered according to date and the user has the option to view the data as percentages or currency (USD). 

***Time Series*** graphs are used answer the question:

- *How does the gross income change over time? Are there any trends?*

These can also be filtered by gender, product lines, payment method, and customer status.

***Sunburst Charts*** can be used to answer the question:

- *How much of the money spent by men is devoted to fashion accessories?*

Likewise, you can answer the question:

- *How much of the money spent on fashion accessories comes from men?*

These questions are different, and show that sunburst charts are capable of answering a wide range of business questions in a succinct way.

### Additional Notes

The intent of the dashboard was to be able to filter every visualization by Branch of the company. While this is possible for the time series and donut charts, it is not for the sunburst chart. This is purely because of the small size of the data set, since there are no data for certain data subsets when many filters are applied.

In a more realistic situation, with a larger data set from a real company, the data will be much more thorough and filtering by branch would not be an issue for this dashboard. 

